Data encryption 

Encryption of data at rest
--------------------------
1. client side encryption
2. server side encryption

client side encryption 
----------------------
we encrypt data manage you own keys
Use KMS if required

Server side encryption
----------------------
AWS encrypt your data and manage key for you
Most AWS services like S3,EBS,Redshift provde SSE usin KMS behind the scenes 



KMS(Key Management service)
KMS provides HA key storage,Management and auditing solution for you to encrypt data within
your own applications
- It only stores Customer Master Keys(CMK)
_ it uses Hardware Security Modules(HSM) to store CMKs
- It is intergrated with most of the services::- using KMS APIs

Features:-
  - KMS is integrated with CloudTrail, which provides you that ability to audit who used which
  keys, on which resources and when
  - CMK(Customer Managed Keys) are used control access to data encyption keys and decryption
  - we have option to Automatically rotate KMS Master keys without the need to re-encypt data that
  already been encrypted your master key.
  - To sure HA, KMS store multiple versions od the keys
  
  CMK
  KMS only manages CMKs. It does NOT manages DataKeys
  A CMK never leaves region that is created
  Can only encrypt maximum of 4KB(But uses datakey for larger object encryption)
  - Data key are generated from CMK; manay DK can be generated from CMKs
  
  
  
  CMK is a regional service, to use in different region decrypt the data from the source CMK and re-encrypte it withe CMK in the destination region
  
CMK(Customer Master keys)
Customer managed keys are primary resources in AWS KMS
The CMk also contains the key material used to encrypt/decrypt data.
CMKs are created in AWS KMS
By default AWS KMS create the key material for a CMK
can also import the key material
A CMK can generate , encrypt and decrypt "data Encryption Keys".
Data Encryption keys can be used for encrypting large amounts of data


#Amazon Manage CMKs
Created ,Managed are used on behlaf by an AWS srevice that is intergrated with AWS KMS.
you cannot manage these CMKs, rotate them or change their key policies.
You also cannot use AWS Managed CMKs in cryptographic operations directly;
Usecase: S3, 


#Customer Managed Keys(CMKs)
The CMKs that you create Manually are customer Managed keys
Customer managed key are KMSkeys in your AWS Account that you create,own and manage.
You have full control over these KMS keys
It provides option to enable/diable keys and deleted when not required::- where AWS manage keys dont have this option


Difference b/w AWS Managed key and Customer Managed Keys
AMK(AWS Manage Keys) 
   - cannot be manaed by us 
   - no monthly fee 
   - Rotation is optional
CMK(Customer Managed Key)
  - we can manage it
  - There is monthly fee
  - Rotation required every year



Data Encryption Keys
Data keys are encypriotn keys used to encrypt data, includin large amount data 
you can use AWS KMS CMK to generate,encrypt and decrypt data keys.
AWS KMS doest store,manage or track your data keys or perform cyrpographic operations wit data keys

